
59) what is abstraction, encapsulation, polymorphism, inheritance?
60) how can we acheive the abstraction? (interface and by abstract class)
61) how can we acheive the encapsulation? ( by private keyword)
62) what is "is-a" and "has-a" relationship? 
63) how to acheive "is-a" relationship? (By inheritance)
64) how to acheive "has-a" relationship? (by aggregation)
65) what is collecction class?
66) what are the classes in collection? (utility method, sort, reverse etc)
67) what is difference b/w hashmap and arraylist?
68) you have arraylist, vector and linkedlist, which is better?
69) what is iterator?
70) what is list iterator?
71) what is the difference between iterator and listIterator?
72) what is enumeration?
73) You now any class in  java which is final? (String class)
74) what is the difference between String and string buffer? (main difference is, String is mutable while String buffer is nonMutible)
75) how to concatenate two string? ( by using + and concate method)
76) how to concaenate the string buffer?	 ( by using the  append method)
77) what is garbage collection? (used to remove un-used object from the memory)
78) what method is used for garbage collectionn? (System.gc)
79) which method we generally override in java (Abstract method)
80) what is toString method in java? ( it is object representation in form of string) 
81) what is clonning in java?
82) what is hashcode method in java? (unique representation of object)
83) what is difference between equal method of string class , and object class?
84) which is better string or string buffer?
85) what is string builder?
86) what is the difference between spring and spring boot?
87) which come first spring or spring boot ? (spring)
88) what is JSP Servelet?
89) what is difference between servelet and JSP?
90) what is DDL and DML?
91) DDL method (DELETE, ALTER, DROP)
92) DML methods (CREATE, UPDATE, INSERT PUT )
93) what is the difference between DROP and Delete?
94) how to sorting in SQL (By using ORDER BY)
95) what is having in SQL?
96) what is GROUP BY?
97) how to create table (CREATE TABLE test(id INTEGER, name VARCHAR)
98) what is the difference between varchar and char? (char is for fixed size, while varchar is for dynamic size)
99) what is syntax of update query? (UPDATE text  SET name="feezan"  WHERE name= "khan")
100) can we fetch data of two table in single way? ( yes by using the joins)
101) what is turing machine?
102) List and Set are interface or class? (interface)
103) what is the super interface of list and set? (Collection)
104) what is the super class of list? (Abstract list)
105) what is super class of hastSet? (Abstract Set)
106) what is Stack and Queue?
107) what is dictionary?
108) Map is interface or class? (interface)   
109) what is key set method?
110) how to iterate hashmap?
111) if there is array of 10 elements, find out the largest element?
112) how to find the armstrong number?
113) what is the difference between html and css?
114) can we write database board in html? (no)
115) why JDBC used?
116) Any Technology to overcome the jdbc? (hibernate) 
117) what is the difference between hibernate and jdbc? 
118) what is the difference between statement and prepare Statement?
119) wheter the statement and prepare statement is interface or class? (interfaces)
120) what is the use of resultset in jdbc?
121) in Case of interfaces mutiple inheritances are allowed why



Different questions 

Q1.Difference between Authentication and Authorization
	1.Authentication is a process of identifying the user to provide acces to the system.
	1.Authorization gives permission to access the resource.
	2.In this user or client are verified.
	2.In this it is verified if users are allowed through the defined policies and rules.
	3.It is usually performed before the authorization.
	3.It will done once the user successfully  authenticated.
	4.Example: Entering Login details is necessary for the employees to authenticate themselves to access the organizational emails or software.
	4.Example: After employees successfully authenticate themselves, they can access and work on certain functions only as per their roles and profiles.
	5.Authenticationm is partially change by user.
	6.Authorization cannot changed by user.
	7.Login details, usernames, passwords, OTPs required.
	7.Checks the security level and privilege of the user, thus determining what the user can or cannot have access to.

Q2.How to devlop web application by spring boot?
	1.By using spring intilizer we can create a project or application in this 
		1.we can select the maven or gradle project.
		2.select the language.
		3.spring boot version 2.7.0 by default selected
		4.group id and artifavt id 
		5. Add the dependencies
		genrate it by just click in junrate button.
	2.Import into out sts.
	3.Application.properties file connect the database.
	4.create controller,entity,services,repository.

Q3.IOC ->
	when we give all the control of object creation to spring and spring inject the object at dynamically run time is called inversion of control.

Q4.IOC container:
	IOC Container is responsible for 1.create the object.2.hold the object in memory.3.The inject the object into another object.
	IOC container get information from xml file and work accordingly.
	Two types of IOC container
		1.BeanFactory
		2.ApplicationContext
			Both the interfaces act as a ioc container.ApplicationContext is build on top of the beanfactory interface.it add some extra functionality than beanfactory 
			simple integration with spring AOP , message resource handling , event propagation etc.

Q5.Method to break the single ton design pattern ?
	1.By clonnable interface-> By implementing singleton class to clonable interface and invoking the clone() method on its single instance it can create duplicate obbject.
	2.By desrilization.
	3.Reflection.

Q6.Which algorithm followed by Garbage collector?
	mark and sweep alogorithm followed by the garbage collector.

Q7.Features of java 7?
	1.Try with multiple catch.
	2.Try with resource block.
	3.swith statement allows string variable.

Q8.Serialization and Deserialization in Java
	Serialization is mechanism in writing the state of object into byte stream.It is mainly used in hybernate, jpa technology.The reverse opereation of serialization is deserialization
	where byte stream is converted into object.serialization and desrialization process is platform independent it means we can serialize the object and deserialize in othe platform.
	For serializing the object, we call the writeObject() method and for deserialization we call the readObject() method 

	Advantage of Serialization is we can travel the object state on the network.
	Serializable is a marker interface (has no data member and method). It is used to "mark" Java classes so that the objects of these classes may get a certain capability. The Cloneable
	and Remote are also marker interfaces.The Serializable interface must be implemented by the class whose object needs to be persisted.The String class and all the wrapper classes
	implement the java.io.Serializable interface by default.

Q9.which is marker interface in java ?
	when any class implement marker interface then this interface gives msg to jvm to add special features in that class.
	1.Clonnable interface
		Cleanable interface in Java is also a marker interface that belong to java.lang package. It generates replica (copy) of an object with different name. We can implement 
		the interface in the class of which class object to be cloned. It indicates the clone() method of the Object class. If we do not implement the Cloneable interface in 
		the class and invokes the clone() method, it throws the ClassNotSupportedException.
	2.Serializable interface
	3.Remote interface
		Remote interface is a marker interface that belong to java.rmi package. It marks an object as remote that can be accessed from another machine (host). We must implement 
		the Remote interface if we want to make an object as remote. It identifies the interfaces whose methods can be invoked from a non-local JVM. Any remote object must 
		implement the interface directly or indirectly.
	4.Random Access

Q10.Features of java 8?
	1.Functinal interface
	2.Lambda Expression
	3.default method and static method in java. 

Q11.What is spring bean lifecycle?
	When bean is instantiated, it may be required to perform some intialization to get it into usable state.similary when bean is no longer required and it is removed from container.
	some cleanup may be required.

Q13.Which command is used to run the spring boot application?
	The alternate to run the spring boot without building the JAR file is to run the command mvnspring-boot:run.
   
Q14.What is differnce between hashmap and linkedhashmap?
	linkedhashmap is child class of hashmap .they having same constructor and method but following differnce:
	1.The underline data structure of hashmap is hashtable.
	1.1.The underline data structure of linkedhashmap is hashtable + linked list.
	2.In hashmap insertion order is not preseeved. the object are stored by using hashcode of keys.
	2.In linkedlist insertion order is preserved.
	3.Hashmap was introduced in 1.2 version.
	3.LinkedHashMap was introduced in 1.4 version.

Q15.What is ClassCastException ?
	ClassCastException is runtime exception in java.It arise when we try to improper cast a class from one type to another type.

Q16.What is Response Entity in spring boot ?
	It represent the hole http response: stastus code , headers ,body.If we want to use it we have to return it from endpoint.

Q17.What is endpoint in spring boot ?
	The endpoint is spring boot actuator.It include the no of additionbal features that help the monitoring and managing the spring boot application.If we want to get production ready
	features then we shoud use spring boot actuator.
	Main features of spring boot actuator :
	1.Endpoint : spring boot provide no of buid in end point. we are also create our own end point.Most of application choose http where id of endponit along with /actuator is mapped
		to the url.
		for eg : /actuator/health provide basic health information of an application. 
	2.Metrices
	3.Auditing

Q18.Spring profile?
	Profile is simply termed as different envirement that every application comprises.Each envirement has different requirement.for this perpose DEV OR QA are profiles used.Devloper uses 
	DEV and for testing purpose it uses QA .

Q19.Spring looger?
	Java provides looging API that was introduced in java 1.4  version. Java logging is an imp features that helps devloper to find out the errors.
	When an application genrate a loggine call the looger record the event in logRecord.After that it send to the corresponding handlers.

	Need of Logger?
	1.It provide complete tracing information of the application.
	2.It record the critical failure if there is failure accured in the application.

	Logging dependency is managed by default.We cannot be changed the dependency.

Q20.What is Functional interface?
	The interface contains only one abstract method and any no of default and static method is called functional interface.It has annotation of @FunctionalInterface but it
	is not mandataory.
	1.Runnable
	2.Predicate
	3.Supplier
	4.ToLongFunction

Q21.Difference between soap and rest?

	1.Soap is the protocol.
	1.Rest is architectural style.

	2.soap stand for simple object access protocol.
	2.rest stand for representational state transfer.

	3.soap can not use rest because it is protocol.
	3.rest use soap web service becz it is concept and rest uses any protocol like http,soap.

	4.soap uses service interface to expose business logic.
	4.rest uses uri to expose business logic.

	5.soap defines standerd to be strictly followed.
	5.rest does not defined standard as soap.

	6.soap defines its own security.
	6.restfull web service inherit security.

	7.soap permit xml data format only.
	7.rest permit html,json,xml.

	8.soap is less prefered than rest.
	8.rest is more prefered than soap.

Q22.What is hashing?
	Hashing is an algorithm that calculates a fixed-size bit string value from a file. A file basically contains blocks of data. Hashing transforms this data into a far shorter
	fixed-length value or key which represents the original string.A good hashing algorithm would exhibit a property called the avalanche effect, where the resulting hash output 
	would change significantly or entirely even when a single bit or byte of data within a file is changed.A hash is usually a hexadecimal string of several characters. Hashing 
	is also a unidirectional process so you can never work backwards to get back the original data.
	
	Brenifits of hashing?
	One main use of hashing is to compare two files for equality. Without opening two document files to compare them word-for-word, the calculated hash values of these files
	will allow the owner to know immediately if they are different.

Q23.Scope of beans?
	1.Single Ton design pattern ->It is default scope of beans.This scopes the bean defination to single instance per spring ioc container.
	2.Prototype -> This scope a sing bean defination any no of object instance.
	3.Request -> This scope a bean defination to an HTTP request.
	4.Session -> This scope a baen defination to http session.
	5.global-session -> This scope a baen defination to http global session.

Q24.Difference between primary key and unique key?
	1.There is only one primary key in table.
	1.There is multiple unique key in the table.
	2.Primary key cannot accept null vaule.
	2.Unique key accept only one null value.
	3.Primary key creates clustured index.
	3.Unique key creates non clustured index.

Q25.Types of API ?
	1.Public API-> 
		It is completly public acces api with no restriction on who can use them.An example is Facebook.
	2.Partner API ->
		It is not open to public. It is used between business and client only.Acces is restricted to use of certain licence.
	3.Private API -> 
		It is used only within the company by employee.

Q26.Object class :
	Object class is parent class of all the class in java.In other words it is topmost class in java.
	Methods of object class : 
	1.hashCode() -> return the hashcode of the object.
	2.equals() -> Compare the containt of the string.and return boolean value.
	3.clone() -> create and return the exact copy of the object.
	4.toString() -> return the string representation of object.
	5.notify();
	6.notifyAll();
	7.wait();

Q27.What is jvm,jdk, jre?
Q28.OOPS Concept
Q29.Constructor calling chain
Q30.Difference between final, finally , finalize method
Q31.Use of static keyword
Q32.Why string is immutable?
Q33.Differnce between StringBuffer and StringBuilder
Q34.Differnce between String and stringBuffer
Q35.What is differnce between Array and Collection
Q36.What is exception handling? How to handle the exception?
Q37.What is difference between checked and uncheked exception?
Q38.How to create a custom type exception?
Q39.explain the hierarchy of exception?
Q40.Try with resource block?
Q41.Basic concept related to finally block?
Q42.What is collection?
Q43.hierarchy of collection?
Q44.When we use List,Set?
Q45.When we use ArrayList, LinkedList?
Q46.Differnce between hashset and linkedhashset?
Q45.Internal working of hashset?
Q46.what is serializable, clonable and random access interface?
Q47.Difference between set and list?
Q48.When we use hashmap?
Q49.Internal working of hashmap?
Q50.Difference between hashmap and likedhashmap?
Q51.How to create customised arraylist?
Q52.How to create immutable class?
Q53.How to create sington class?
Q54.



##program##
1.palindrome?
2.reverse a string?
3.reverse a string by recursion?
4.accurance of character in string?
5.accurance of words in sentense?
6.Array
7.string	
	




























